welcome to the man of recaps this is the
fourth and final season of mr. robot
it's Christmastime in the city which is
a stark contrast to the general tone of
the show but when it's all over Santa's
gone back to his shitty day Joe last
season Elliott successfully reversed his
original 5/9 hack but he hasn't had a
change of heart
he's more committed than ever to taking
down the secret billionaires controlling
the world
Elliott Dennis split-personality mr.
robot working together now a hack and
blackmail their way to find that most of
white roses money is being held in
Cyprus National Bank white rose gets
wind of this though and sends Elliott
into a trap they're gonna do the
old-fashioned heroin overdose and at the
end of episode 1 looks like Elliott's
dead show over but he's saved by none
other than Phillip price CEO of he Corp
at the end of last season we just
learned that Angela is his secret
daughter white rose tricked Angela into
helping her blow up all those buildings
so Angela wants revenge but the dark
army has Phillip price under their thumb
and Phillip can't stop him they kill
Angela no so he is real mad now wants to
help Elliot take white rose down he
explains that the shadowy group of men
secretly running the world is a real
thing they call themselves the Deus
group and it's white rose Minister Jang
who set it all up years ago the plan is
to draw them all out Phillip rice says
he's going to resign and they all need
to meet on Christmas Day to appoint a
new CEO of ecore Elliot's sister Darlene
joins in to health and their next lead
is a single mom who works for Cyprus
National Bank Elliott plans to blackmail
her but mr. robot takes over to lay on
the charm so they have an awkward third
wheel first date and it actually goes
really well my boy Elliott's getting
laid it was just to steal her key fob
but she and Elliot do make a real human
connection about how they both used to
be drug addicts but when he comes clean
he's a super hacker trying to take down
her employers she refuses to help him
but he actually drugged her coffee so
that she'll fail a drug test and lose
custody of her son if he doesn't help
Wow Elliot that's cold bro when he gets
home he finds tyrell wellick in his
apartment Tyrell has his dream job the
chief technology officer of e corp but
he's lost his wife and son and is just a
puppet for the dark army so he's not
happy they're going to appoint him
though as a replacement CEO and he's
like
we can finally take him down
unfortunately he didn't realize the dark
army has Elliott under surveillance so
he's got to go kill the guy they got
listening in they go to the middle of
nowhere to ditch the body but it turns
out the guy survived so they spent an
episode walking through the woods until
they finally find the van he takes final
few shots at him before killing himself
to not be captured and unfortunately
Tyrell got hit he walks off into the
mist to die he does find a strange
purple glow in the forest I think it's
just the show's artsy way of showing his
death but with this show you never know
what's real Elliott gets a ride home
from Darlene who had her own side
adventure stealing a car with a drunken
Santa Claus then it's time for a heist
Elliott and Darlene sneaking into this
server room doing some good
old-fashioned hacking it's super cool
actually there's no dialogue the whole
episode they finished just too late and
the cops are here so Elliott runs them
on a merry little chase all over the
city this is why cardio is important
even if you're a computer guy with
Elliott distracting them Darlene's able
to calmly walk out when Elliott's
finally cornered he jumps off the bridge
but uh-oh he rolls down and Darlene's
there to pick him up but this moved them
right to the top of the dark Army's
wanted list and they send their FBI
agent dominates the Pietro to pick him
up
at the end of last season Dominique was
forced to be the dark Army's new FBI
mole her dark army handlers this woman
Janis who doesn't seem very scary but
she threatens to slaughter Dominic's
whole family no problem Saddam picks up
Darlene the order comes in to kill her
these two have shared a connection
though including one romantic evening so
Dom just can't do it
Janis though is happy to kill her except
Darlene just wiped her phone so they
need her alive now to find Elliott where
is Elliott he's been kidnapped by
totally unrelated people
it's Fernando Vera the drug dealer from
back in season one he's back in business
and he wants Elliott with his super
hacker skills to help him build a
criminal empire now he's a crazy dude
who loves to hear himself talk he
basically spends the episode telling
Elliott his full life story
he's also kidnapped Elliott's therapist
Christa he knows he won't be able to
really trust Elliott unless he breaks
him completely so he forces them into a
therapy session and tries to cram years
of therapy into one night they go back
to the inciting incident of Elliott's
trauma the fall from the window the
original story was that Elliot's dad
accidentally pushed him out the window
which was always weird and Darlene
last season that Elliott wasn't pushed
he jumped which is even weirder but why
would Elliott be scared of his father
his father was his best friend growing
up Krista's like was he though and
Elliott remembers the truth
did your father sexually molest him yes
his father was an awful child molesting
monster all the good memories Elliott
has of his dad was mr. robot his
imaginary friend
another big twist this shatters
Elliott's world he's completely broken
which is exactly what Mehra wanted he's
like hey man join my drug empire we'll
be a family
but unfortunately for him Krista stabs
him in the back DOM and Darlene are
still captured they're gonna kill Dom to
make Darlene give up Elliot's location
not just Dom in fact they're gonna kill
her whole family but the dark army
agents stopped responding yeah Dom was
one step ahead of um earlier she
released this other criminal from prison
and hired him to pre kidnap her family
to keep them safe from the dark army
then BOOM Dom use an FBI training takes
these guys all out then christmas is
here it's time for the big Deus group
meeting but when price walks in it's
just white rose yeah he knew Philip was
playing him the real Deus groups meeting
across town Security's way too heavy
Darlene can't get in so she hatches a
new plan she quickly makes a new F
society video calling out the day's
group including where they're meeting
right now they all freak out and go
outside calling their drivers where
Darlene's able to hack their phones and
boom get their bank accounts white rose
and the rest of them have lost
everything Billa price is like ha gotcha
so Rose shoots him right there but all
the crimes of the Deus group have been
brought into the light and Elliot and
Darlene redistribute their wealth to
everyone in the world yeah they did it
the day is saved but the show is not
over yet white rose survives she still
has enough power to pursue her primary
goal the giant machine she's built under
the Washington Township plant we still
have no idea what it is but Elliot knows
he's got to go take it out a dark army
picks him up and brings him in for a
one-on-one with White Rose
it's a weird room just like the one
where Angela met white rose back in
season two white rose talks for a while
about how the world is an awful place
and all she wants to do is make it
better
she talks again about how because of her
machine no one will ever really have to
so what is it like a virtual world a
happy matrix that everyone can upload
their minds into or is it even crazier
like an actual time machine or stranger
things dimensional portal le it's like
hey whatever you're planning it's
clearly not gonna work you're just gonna
cause a meltdown in the nuclear plant
destroying New York but White Rose is so
confident that she
oh shoot herself boom boom White Rose
dead
I guess to shut the Machine down Elliot
has to play in a whole-school das game
long story short beating the game
doesn't work but Elliot realizes that to
win you have to abandon your friend so
instead he says hey I'm gonna stay with
my friend and hey the machine is shut
down or is it everything's going red
the next morning Elliot wakes up and
it's a beautiful day and he gets a call
from Angela yeah she's alive not only is
she alive they're in fact engaged the
wedding's tomorrow yeah it seems like
the machine worked
Elliot's living in a perfect paradise
alternate reality his dad is alive and
well not to child molesting monster but
a great father
Elliot's back working at allsafe in fact
he's the CEO of allsafe he's got a big
pitch meeting today for F Corp instead
of E Corp their CEO is tyrell wellick
and he's not an American Psycho he's a
good-hearted nerd so it's a beautiful
day until Elliot gets home and finds his
black hoodie doppelganger in his
apartment yeah that's our Elliot it
looks like the machine teleported him to
this alternate reality he spends the day
investigating realizing how good of a
life this version of himself has so the
two of them have a chat where it's like
wow sorry bro your life sucks but when
they touch it's an earthquake and oh
good hits his head before he can call
for help
angela calls him and it's like hey honey
are you ready to get married tomorrow
and live the life of your dreams
so Elliot's got to a bit of a dilemma
here and he decides to kill his
alternate self yeah this is some real
twilight zone stuff now pretty soon
though it becomes apparent that this
alternate reality is not actually real
mr. robots there with him like yeah
sorry kid this is all in your head it's
like wait what about white roses machine
though transported me to this alternate
universe
no no white rose was crazy her machine
did in fact do nothing and you
successfully shut it down after some
mental shenanigans Elliot finds himself
talking to Krista again
she drops the final big twist of the
show on us the Elliott that we've been
following the entire series is not the
real Elliott he's another split
personality they called a mastermind
this paradise world is a mental prison
where real Elliott's been happily
sleeping he created this black hoodie
super hacktivist alter-ego to take down
the man and save the world he wakes up
in the hospital
Darlene assures us this is the actual
real world he did go to the power plant
and stop white roses machine from
causing a meltdown he's like hey Darlene
am I not actually the real Elliot and
she's like oh yeah yeah I always kind of
thought so I didn't really want to say
anything because I was spending time
with my brother again so mastermind
Elliot feels bad realizes that he saved
the world his job is done so real Elliot
wakes up for the first time in a long
time having successfully faced his
demons both inside and out and that's
how mr. robot comes to an end if you
like this recap hit that subscribe
button I'm bringing you the best recaps
of TV and movies so don't miss out
[Music]